I'm going to show you how to test that
your roast chicken is properly cooked
from the oven and then we're going to
cut it in two joints and that's a really
simple way of cutting the meat instead
of carving it straight from the bird
which can be a bit tricky so first off
we're going to take a skewer and we're
going to put it into the thickest part
of the thigh and what we're looking for
when I pull the skewer out is juices
that run clear hopefully you'll see
there that the juices are clear and
there's no sign of pinkness okay another
trick that you can do and I'm happy that
this is cooked I'll just show you just
in case is just cut between one of the
thighs and we're gonna check if the
fibers of the meat are set which means
they looked cooked and to me they look
set they're fine if they look kind of
wet or underdone then return the chicken
to the oven for about 10 minutes more
and then test again so now we're going
to carve this chicken I'm going to start
by cutting the legs away so I'll carry
on the work I did here a moment ago it's
quite hot so if you want to use a fork
to help then you can do the same on the
other side like that and once you've
released the legs to that stage you can
press on the body pull up with your hand
and simply pull away the whole leg
portion so again on this side push down
and pull away the leg portion and
hopefully you will have taken the oyster
with you that's a really lovely nugget
of flesh that's attached to the thigh I
got that side I didn't get this side so
I'm going to pull that out
and then we're going to cut this leg
into portions follow this line here and
just cut straight through that joint
that gives me a drumstick and a thigh
portion I do the same with the other leg
make sure you get some skin for both
pieces you go that's the leg dealt with
now the breast we can take these off
hopefully and quite easy chunks so I'm
going to cut down one side of the breast
bone and the breast bone runs from the
top to the bottom here cut to one side
of that follow the meat around I'm
slightly trying to follow the safe of
the rib cage that's underneath here I'm
just going to get my hands in again if
this is too hot for you you could use
your knife and a fork to help trying to
get every last bit of meat from the bird
there's a breast portion so repeat that
on the other side so following the line
of the breastbone just going to the
other side of it this time bring your
knife around I'm going to do an extra
cut up here that should help me pull
this one off a bit more neatly you can
do that as well
so follow the line of the meat round
hand in and there you have two really
neat portions of chicken breast meat
while I'm here I'm going to put away the
wings in case someone wants to have an
or node okay I'm just going to set aside
the bones here and they're great for
making stock if you want to do that
later I'll show you what you can do with
this so instead of carving from the
chicken that's quite tricky you simply
cut
like that and there is your check-in
ready to serve
so that's how to check your chicken is
cooked and to carve it a really easy way